---
slug: Images
---

An image is a link to an image file[^1] that does not have a description part, for example

```lisp
./img/cat.jpg
```

If you wish to define a caption for the image (see [Captions](/docs/org/Captions)) and maybe a label for internal cross-references (see [Internal Links](/docs/org/Internal-Links)), make sure that the link is on a line by itself and precede it with ‘`CAPTION`’ and ‘`NAME`’ keywords as follows:

```lisp
#+CAPTION: This is the caption for the next figure link (or table)
#+NAME:   fig:SED-HR4049
[[./img/a.jpg]]
```

Such images can be displayed within the buffer with the following command:

### `C-c C-x C-v` (`org-toggle-inline-images`)

Toggle the inline display of linked images. When called with a prefix argument, also display images that do have a link description. You can ask for inline images to be displayed at startup by configuring the variable `org-startup-with-inline-images`[^2].

By default, Org mode displays inline images according to their actual width, but no wider than `fill-column` characters.

You can customize the displayed image width using `org-image-actual-width` variable (globally) or ‘`ORG-IMAGE-ACTUAL-WIDTH`’ property (subtree-level)[^3]. Their value can be the following:

*   (default) Non-`nil`, use the actual width of images when inlining them. If the actual width is too wide, limit it according to `org-image-max-width`.

*   When set to a number, use imagemagick (when available) to set the image’s width to this value.

*   When set to a number in a list, try to get the width from any ‘`#+ATTR.*`’ keyword if it matches a width specification like:

    ```lisp
    #+ATTR_HTML: :width 300px
    ```

    and fall back on that number if none is found.

*   When set to `nil`, try to get the width from an ‘`#+ATTR.*`’ keyword and fall back on the original width or `org-image-max-width` if none is found.

`org-image-max-width` limits the maximum displayed image width, but only when the image width is not set explicitly. Possible maximum width can be set to:

*   (default) `fill-column`, limit width to `fill-column` number of characters.
*   `window`, limit width to current window width.
*   integer number, limit width to that specified number of pixels.
*   `nil`, do not limit the width.

Org mode can left-align, center or right-align the display of inline images. This setting is controlled (globally) by `org-image-align`. Only standalone images are affected, corresponding to links with no surrounding text in their paragraph except for whitespace. Its value can be the following:

*   (default) The symbol `left`, which inserts the image where the link appears in the buffer.
*   The symbol `center`, which will preview links centered in the Emacs window.
*   The symbol `right`, which will preview links right-aligned in the Emacs window.

Inline image alignment can be specified for each link using the ‘`#+ATTR.*`’ keyword if it matches an alignment specification like:

```lisp
#+ATTR_HTML: :align center
```

Org will use the alignment specification from any ‘`#+ATTR.*`’ keyword, such as ‘`#+ATTR_HTML`’ or ‘`#+ATTR_LATEX`’, but ‘`#+ATTR_ORG`’ (if present) will override the others. For instance, this link

```lisp
#+ATTR_HTML: :align right
#+ATTR_ORG: :align center
[[/path/to/image/file.png]]
```

will be displayed centered in Emacs but exported right-aligned to HTML.

When ‘`#+ATTR_ORG`’ is not set, inline image alignment is also read from the ‘`:center`’ attribute supported by some export backends (like HTML, LaTeX and Beamer.)

Inline images can also be displayed when cycling the folding state. When custom option `org-cycle-inline-images-display` is set, the visible inline images under subtree will be displayed automatically.

[^1]: What Emacs considers to be an image depends on `image-file-name-extensions` and `image-file-name-regexps`.

[^2]: The variable `org-startup-with-inline-images` can be set within a buffer with the ‘`STARTUP`’ options ‘`inlineimages`’ and ‘`noinlineimages`’.

[^3]: The width can be customized in Emacs ﹥= 24.1, built with imagemagick support.
