---
slug: Markdown-Export
---

## 13.11 Markdown Export

The Markdown export backend, “md", converts an Org file to Markdown format, as defined at [https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/). This is the original Markdown specification, developed by John Gruber and Aaron Swartz.

Since “md" backend is built on top of the HTML backend (see [HTML Export](/docs/org/HTML-Export)), it converts every Org construct not defined in Markdown syntax, such as tables, to HTML.

Do note that the original markdown syntax has differences with other commonly used Markdown flavors. See [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) for more details.

## Markdown export commands

### `C-c C-e m m` (`org-md-export-to-markdown`)

Export to a text file with Markdown syntax. For ‘`myfile.org`’, Org exports to ‘`myfile.md`’, overwritten without warning.

### `C-c C-e m M` (`org-md-export-as-markdown`)

Export to a temporary buffer. Does not create a file.

### `C-c C-e m o`

Export as a text file with Markdown syntax, then open it.

## Header and sectioning structure

Based on `org-md-headline-style`, Markdown export can generate headlines of both *atx* and *setext* types. *setext* limits headline levels to two whereas *atx* limits headline levels to six. *mixed* exports headline levels one and two in *setext*-style, and headline levels three through six as *atx*-style headlines. Beyond these limits, the export backend converts headlines to lists. To set a limit to a level before the absolute limit (see [Export Settings](/docs/org/Export-Settings)).
