---
slug: Plain-lists-in-Texinfo-export
---

The Texinfo export backend converts unordered and ordered lists in the Org file using the default command ‘`@itemize`’.

Ordered lists are numbered when exported to Texinfo format. Such numbering obeys any counter (see [Plain Lists](/docs/org/Plain-Lists)) in the first item of the list. The ‘`:enum`’ attribute also let you start the list at a specific number, or switch to a lettered list, as illustrated here:

```lisp
#+ATTR_TEXINFO: :enum A
1. Alpha
2. Bravo
3. Charlie
```

The Texinfo export backend by default converts description lists in the Org file using the default command ‘`@table`’, which results in a table with two columns. To change this behavior, set ‘`:table-type`’ attribute to either ‘`ftable`’ or ‘`vtable`’ value. For more information, see [(texinfo)Two-column Tables](https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/texinfo.html#Two_002dcolumn-Tables).

The Texinfo export backend by default also applies a text highlight based on the defaults stored in `org-texinfo-table-default-markup`. To override the default highlight command, specify another one with the ‘`:indic`’ attribute.

Org syntax is limited to one entry per list item. Nevertheless, the Texinfo export backend can split that entry according to any text provided through the ‘`:sep`’ attribute. Each part then becomes a new entry in the first column of the table.

The following example illustrates all the attributes above:

```lisp
#+ATTR_TEXINFO: :table-type vtable :sep , :indic asis
- foo, bar :: This is the common text for variables foo and bar.
```

becomes

```lisp
@vtable @asis
@item foo
@itemx bar
This is the common text for variables foo and bar.
@end table
```

The ‘`:compact`’ attribute is an alternative to the ‘`:sep`’ attribute, which allows writing each entry on its own line. If this attribute is non-`nil` and an item in a description list has no body but is followed by another item, then the second item is transcoded to ‘`@itemx`’. This example is transcoded to the same output as above.

```lisp
#+ATTR_TEXINFO: :table-type vtable :indic asis :compact t
- foo ::
- bar ::
  This is the common text for variables foo and bar.
```

Support for this compact syntax can also be enabled for all lists in a file using the ‘`compact-itemx`’ export option, or globally using the variable `org-texinfo-compact-itemx`.

The Texinfo export backend also supports two approaches to writing Texinfo definition commands (see [(texinfo)Definition Commands](https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/manual/texinfo/texinfo.html#Definition-Commands)). One of them uses description lists and is described below, the other relies on special blocks (see [Special blocks in Texinfo export](/docs/org/Special-blocks-in-Texinfo-export)).

Items in a description list in an Org file that begin with ‘`Function:`’ or certain other prefixes are converted using Texinfo definition commands. This works even if other items in the same list do not have such a prefix; if necessary a single description list is converted using multiple tables (such as ‘`@vtable`’) and definition commands (such as ‘`@defun`’).

```lisp
- Function: org-texinfo-drawer drawer contents info ::
  Transcode a DRAWER element from Org to Texinfo.
```

becomes

```lisp
@defun org-texinfo-drawer drawer contents info ::
  Transcode a DRAWER element from Org to Texinfo.
@end defun
```

The recognized prefixes are ‘`Command:`’, ‘`Function:`’, ‘`Macro:`’, ‘`Special Form:`’, ‘`Variable:`’ and ‘`User Option:`’. These are the same prefixes that appear in the Info file for the respective definition commands. For example a ‘`Function:`’ item in the Org file is converted to a ‘`@defun`’ command in the Texinfo file, which in turn is converted to a definition prefixed with ‘`-- Function:`’ in the Info file.

As a special case the prefix ‘`Key:`’ is also recognized. No Texinfo definition command exists for key bindings and the output in Info files also lacks the ‘`Key:`’ prefix. Even so this special case is supported because it provides a convenient shorthand, as illustrated here:

```lisp
- Key: C-c C-c (do-something) ::
  This command does something.

- User Option: do-something-somehow ::
  This option controls how exactly ~do-something~ does its thing.
```

becomes

```lisp
@table @asis
@item @kbd{C-c C-c} (@code{do-something})
@kindex C-c C-c
@findex do-something
This command does something.
@end table

@defopt do-something-somehow
This option controls how exactly @code{do-something} does its thing.
@end defopt
```

Command in parenthesis, as done above, is optional.
