---
slug: Source-blocks-in-LaTeX-export
---

## 13.10.8 Source blocks in LaTeX export

LaTeX export backend provides multiple ways to render src blocks in LaTeX, according to the value of `org-latex-src-block-backend`. The default value ‘`verbatim`’ renders the src code verbatim, without any extra styling. Alternative values allow more colorful styling, but require additional LaTeX (‘`listings`’, ‘`minted`’), system (‘`minted`’), or Emacs (‘`engraved`’) packages. See the `org-latex-src-block-backend` docstring for more details.

The LaTeX export backend can make source code blocks into floating objects through the attributes ‘`:float`’ and ‘`:options`’. For ‘`:float`’:

### ‘`t`’

Makes a source block float; by default floats any source block with a caption.

### ‘`multicolumn`’

Spans the source block across multiple columns of a page.

### ‘`nil`’

Avoids a ‘`:float`’ even if using a caption; useful for source code blocks that may not fit on a page.

```lisp
#+ATTR_LATEX: :float nil
#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp
  Lisp code that may not fit in a single page.
#+END_SRC
```

The LaTeX export backend passes string values in ‘`:options`’ to LaTeX packages for customization of that specific source block. In the example below, the ‘`:options`’ are set for Engraved or Minted. Minted is a source code highlighting LaTeX package with many configurable options[^1]. Both Minted and Engraved are built on [fvextra](https://www.ctan.org/pkg/fvextra), and so support many of the same options.

```lisp
#+ATTR_LATEX: :options mathescape
#+BEGIN_SRC emacs-lisp
  (defun Fib (n) ; $n_i = n_{i-2} + n_{i-1}$
    (if (< n 2) n (+ (Fib (- n 1)) (Fib (- n 2)))))
#+END_SRC
```

To apply similar configuration options for all source blocks in a file, use the `org-latex-listings-options`, `org-latex-engraved-options`, and `org-latex-minted-options` variables.

[^1]: Minted uses an external Python package for code highlighting, which requires the flag ‘`-shell-escape`’ to be added to `org-latex-pdf-process`.
