---
slug: Export-Settings
---

Export options can be set: globally with variables; for an individual file by making variables buffer-local with in-buffer settings (see [Summary of In-Buffer Settings](/docs/org/In_002dbuffer-Settings)); by setting individual keywords or specifying them in compact form with the ‘`OPTIONS`’ keyword; or for a tree by setting properties (see [Properties and Columns](/docs/org/Properties-and-Columns)). Options set at a specific level override options set at a more general level.

In-buffer settings may appear anywhere in the file, either directly or indirectly through a file included using ‘`#+SETUPFILE: filename or URL`’ syntax. Option keyword sets tailored to a particular backend can be inserted from the export dispatcher (see [The Export Dispatcher](/docs/org/The-Export-Dispatcher)) using the ‘`Insert template`’ command by pressing `#`. To insert keywords individually, a good way to make sure the keyword is correct is to type ‘`#+`’ and then to use `M-TAB`[^1] for completion.

The export keywords available for every backend, and their equivalent global variables, include:

### ‘`AUTHOR`’

The document author (`user-full-name`).

### ‘`CREATOR`’

Entity responsible for output generation (`org-export-creator-string`).

### ‘`DATE`’

A date or a timestamp[^2].

### ‘`EMAIL`’

The email address (`user-mail-address`).

### ‘`LANGUAGE`’

Language to use for translating certain strings (`org-export-default-language`). With ‘`#+LANGUAGE: fr`’, for example, Org translates ‘`Table of contents`’ to the French ‘`Table des matières`’[^3].

### ‘`SELECT_TAGS`’

List of tags that will, if present, be selected for export. The default value is `org-export-select-tags` ‘`("export")`’. When a tree is tagged with ‘`export`’, Org selects that tree and its subtrees for export, ignoring all the other sections that do not possess the ‘`export`’ tag.

When selectively exporting files with ‘`export`’ tags set, Org does not export any text that appears before the first headline.

Note that a file without the ‘`export`’ tags will export all its sections.

To select non-default tags for export, customize `org-export-select-tags` (globally) or add ‘`#+SELECT_TAGS: tag1 tag2`’ to the document.

### ‘`EXCLUDE_TAGS`’

List of tags that will be excluded from export. The default value is `org-export-exclude-tags` ‘`("noexport")`’. When a tree is tagged with ‘`noexport`’, Org excludes that tree and its subtrees from export.

Entries tagged with ‘`noexport`’ are unconditionally excluded from the export, even if they have an ‘`export`’ tag. Even if a subtree is not exported, Org executes any code blocks contained there.

To select non-default tags for the exclusion, customize `org-export-exclude-tags` (globally) or add ‘`#+EXCLUDE_TAGS: tag1 tag2`’ to the document.

### ‘`TITLE`’

Org displays this title. For long titles, use multiple ‘`#+TITLE`’ lines.

### ‘`EXPORT_FILE_NAME`’

The name of the output file to be generated. Otherwise, Org generates the file name based on the buffer name and the extension based on the backend format.

The ‘`OPTIONS`’ keyword is a compact form. To configure multiple options, use several ‘`OPTIONS`’ lines. ‘`OPTIONS`’ recognizes the following arguments.

### `'`

Toggle smart quotes (`org-export-with-smart-quotes`). Depending on the language used, when activated, Org treats pairs of double quotes as primary quotes, pairs of single quotes as secondary quotes, and single quote marks as apostrophes.

### `*`

Toggle emphasized text (`org-export-with-emphasize`).

### `-`

Toggle conversion of special strings (`org-export-with-special-strings`).

### `:`

Toggle fixed-width sections (`org-export-with-fixed-width`).

### `<`

Toggle inclusion of time/date active/inactive stamps (`org-export-with-timestamps`).

### `\n`

Toggles whether to preserve line breaks (`org-export-preserve-breaks`).

### `^`

Toggle TeX-like syntax for sub- and superscripts. If you write ‘`^:{}`’, ‘`a_{b}`’ is interpreted, but the simple ‘`a_b`’ is left as it is (`org-export-with-sub-superscripts`).

### `arch`

Configure how archived trees are exported. When set to `headline`, the export process skips the contents and processes only the headlines (`org-export-with-archived-trees`).

### `author`

Toggle inclusion of author name into exported file (`org-export-with-author`).

### `expand-links`

Toggle expansion of environment variables in file paths (`org-export-expand-links`).

### `broken-links`

Toggles if Org should continue exporting upon finding a broken internal link. When set to `mark`, Org clearly marks the problem link in the output (`org-export-with-broken-links`).

### `c`

Toggle inclusion of ‘`CLOCK`’ keywords (`org-export-with-clocks`).

### `creator`

Toggle inclusion of creator information in the exported file (`org-export-with-creator`).

### `d`

Toggles inclusion of drawers, or list of drawers to include, or list of drawers to exclude (`org-export-with-drawers`).

### `date`

Toggle inclusion of a date into exported file (`org-export-with-date`).

### `e`

Toggle inclusion of entities (`org-export-with-entities`).

### `email`

Toggle inclusion of the author’s e-mail into exported file (`org-export-with-email`).

### `f`

Toggle the inclusion of footnotes (`org-export-with-footnotes`).

### `H`

Set the number of headline levels for export (`org-export-headline-levels`). Below that level, headlines are treated differently. In most backends, they become list items.

### `inline`

Toggle inclusion of inlinetasks (`org-export-with-inlinetasks`).

### `num`

Toggle section-numbers (`org-export-with-section-numbers`). When set to number N, Org numbers only those headlines at level N or above. Set ‘`UNNUMBERED`’ property to non-`nil` to disable numbering of heading and subheadings entirely. Moreover, when the value is ‘`notoc`’ the headline, and all its children, do not appear in the table of contents either (see [Table of Contents](/docs/org/Table-of-Contents)).

### `p`

Toggle export of planning information (`org-export-with-planning`). “Planning information" comes from lines located right after the headline and contain any combination of these cookies: ‘`SCHEDULED`’, ‘`DEADLINE`’, or ‘`CLOSED`’.

### `pri`

Toggle inclusion of priority cookies (`org-export-with-priority`).

### `prop`

Toggle inclusion of property drawers, or list the properties to include (`org-export-with-properties`).

### `stat`

Toggle inclusion of statistics cookies (`org-export-with-statistics-cookies`).

### `tags`

Toggle inclusion of tags, may also be `not-in-toc` (`org-export-with-tags`).

### `tasks`

Toggle inclusion of tasks (TODO items); or `nil` to remove all tasks; or `todo` to remove done tasks; or list the keywords to keep (`org-export-with-tasks`).

### `tex`

`nil` does not export; `t` exports; `verbatim` keeps everything in verbatim (`org-export-with-latex`).

### `timestamp`

Toggle inclusion of the creation time in the exported file (`org-export-timestamp-file`).

### `title`

Toggle inclusion of title (`org-export-with-title`).

### `toc`

Toggle inclusion of the table of contents, or set the level limit (`org-export-with-toc`).

### `todo`

Toggle inclusion of TODO keywords into exported text (`org-export-with-todo-keywords`).

### `|`

Toggle inclusion of tables (`org-export-with-tables`).

When exporting subtrees, special node properties can override the above keywords. These properties have an ‘`EXPORT_`’ prefix. For example, ‘`DATE`’ becomes, ‘`EXPORT_DATE`’ when used for a specific subtree. Except for ‘`SETUPFILE`’, all other keywords listed above have an ‘`EXPORT_`’ equivalent.

If `org-export-allow-bind-keywords` is non-`nil`, Emacs variables can become buffer-local during export by using the ‘`BIND`’ keyword. Its syntax is ‘`#+BIND: variable value`’. This is particularly useful for in-buffer settings that cannot be changed using keywords.

[^1]: Many desktops intercept `M-TAB` to switch windows. Use `C-M-i` or `ESC TAB` instead.

[^2]: The variable `org-export-date-timestamp-format` defines how this timestamp are exported.

[^3]: For export to LaTeX format—or LaTeX-related formats such as Beamer—, the ‘`org-latex-package-alist`’ variable needs further configuration. See [LaTeX specific export settings](/docs/org/LaTeX-specific-export-settings).
