---
slug: Citations
---

## 15.1 Citations

Before adding citations, first set one-or-more bibliographies, either globally with `org-cite-global-bibliography`, or locally using one or more “bibliography" keywords.

```lisp
#+bibliography: SomeFile.bib
#+bibliography: /some/other/file.json
#+bibliography: "/some/file/with spaces/in its name.bib"
```

Org mode uses all the local and global bibliographies combined to search for citation keys.

One can then insert and edit citations using `org-cite-insert`, called with `C-c C-x @`.

A *citation* requires one or more citation *key(s)*, elements identifying a reference in the bibliography.

*   Each citation is surrounded by brackets and uses the ‘`cite`’ type.

*   Each key starts with the character ‘`@`’.

    ```lisp
    [cite:@key]
    ```

*   Each key can be qualified by a *prefix* (e.g. “see ") and/or a *suffix* (e.g. “p. 123"), giving information useful or necessary for the comprehension of the citation but not included in the reference.

    ```lisp
    [cite:see @key p. 123]
    ```

*   A single citation can cite more than one reference ; the keys are separated by semicolons ; the formatting of such citation groups is specified by the style.

    ```lisp
    [cite:@key1;@key2;@key3]
    ```

*   One can also specify a stylistic variation for the citations by inserting a ‘`/`’ and a style name between the ‘`cite`’ keyword and the colon; this usually makes sense only for the author-year styles.

    ```lisp
    [cite/style:common prefix ;prefix @key suffix; ... ; common suffix]
    ```

    When ‘`style`’ is not specified, one of the two default styles are used

    *   either the default style specified in the ‘`CITE_EXPORT`’ keyword (see [Citation export processors](/docs/org/Citation-export-processors))

        ```lisp
        #+cite_export: basic numeric noauthor/bare
        [cite:@key] is the same as [cite/noauthor/bare:@key]
        ```

    *   or, if ‘`CITE_EXPORT`’ is not set, using the default ‘`nil`’ style

        ```lisp
        [cite:@key] is the same as [cite/nil:@key]
        ```

The only mandatory elements are:

*   The ‘`cite`’ keyword and the colon.
*   The ‘`@`’ character immediately preceding each key.
*   The brackets surrounding the citation(s) (group).
