---
slug: Bibliography-options-in-the-biblatex-and-csl-export-processors
---

The ‘`biblatex`’ and ‘`csl`’ export processors support bibliography options through a property list attached to the ‘`PRINT_BIBLIOGRAPHY`’ keyword. For example,

```lisp
#+print_bibliography: :keyword algebra :type book
```

Values including spaces must be surrounded with double quotes. If you need to use a key multiple times, you can separate its values with commas, but without any space in-between:

```lisp
#+print_bibliography: :keyword "algebraic logic" :nottype article,book
```

The ‘`biblatex`’ export processor accepts all options supported by BibLaTeX’s `\printbibliography` command.

The ‘`csl`’ processor accepts the following options:

### ‘`:keyword <keyword(,keyword2...)>`’

Print only entries whose keyword field contains all given keywords.

### ‘`:notkeyword <keyword(,keyword2...)>`’

Print only entries whose keyword field does not contain any of the given keywords.

### ‘`:type <entrytype>`’

Print only entries whose type is ‘`<entrytype>`’. Entry type is the BibTeX/BibLaTeX entry type if this information is available (the entry was read from a BibTeX/BibLaTeX bibliography) and the CSL entry type otherwise.

### ‘`:nottype <entrytype(,entrytype2...)>`’

Print only entries whose type is not among the given entry types. Entry type is determined as in the case of ‘`:type`’.

### ‘`:csltype <entrytype>`’

Print only entries whose CSL entry type (possibly based on a conversion from BibTeX/BibLaTeX to CSL) is ‘`<entrytype>`’.

### ‘`:notcsltype <entrytype(,entrytype2...)>`’

Print only entries whose CSL entry type (possibly based on a conversion from BibTeX/BibLaTeX to CSL) is not among the listed entry types.

### ‘`:filter <predicate>`’

Print only entries for which the given Emacs Lisp predicate returns a non-`nil` value.
